# CIS7 Vigenere Cipher Project
### Team and Author
Team W: Walter G

### Published
December 8, 2024

## Description
This is a simple program that uses the Vigenere Cipher to encrypt and decrypte text based messages. 

The Vigenere Cipher uses a key word to generate a key of matching length to a message that will either be encrypted or decrypted. When the program starts, it prompts the user to either enter a custom key word to generate the key, or skip and use the default hard-coded key word "counterstrike" to generate the key.

The user is then prompted for a message that they want to process. I placed a limitation of only using alphabetic characters to provide consistency. This means that the users key word will be stripped of non-alphabetic characters, and the remaining string is transformed to all lower-case. This provides a workable set:

        A = {lower-case alphabet}
        
of size:

        |A| = 26
        
where a is indexed at 0 and z is indexed at 25.

Next the key is generated by repeating the characters in the key word and appending them to the end of the key word until the key matches the message in length.

Finally, the message is either encrypted or decrypted. The following provide the method of encryption:

        E = (M + K) mod 26
        
and decryption:

        D = (E - K + 26) mod 26
        
where:

        M = current message character
        K = current key character
        E = resulting encrypted character
        D = resulting decrypted character
        26 = size of available character set A

The formulas then need to be adjusted for ASCII encoding so the resulting formules result for encryption and decryption, respectively:

        E = (M - 97 + K - 97) mod 26
        
and:

        D = (E - K + 26) mod 26 + 97
        
where:

        97 = index of a in the set of the lower-case alphabet in ASCII
        
## Instructions
1. Run the program. On start you will be prompted to enter a key word with valid characters (a - z) or press enter to use the default key word "counterstrike".

2. You are then prompted to enter the message you would like to process. If you decide you want to restart or quit, press enter. Otherwise enter a message with valid characters (a - z).

3. Finally, you will be prompted to either encrypt, decrypt, or quit the program. Enter "e" or "encrypt" to encrypt, Enter "d" or "decrypt" to decrypt, or press enter to quit.
